---
layout: article
title: "The Ruby Client"
excerpt: "Rubyist? We've got a client just for you."
permalink: /application-development/client-guides/ruby
redirect_from:
  - /clients/ruby/
  - /application-development/guides/ruby/
date: 2016-07-08
categories: clients
tags: [clients]
ignore_sections: [development, contributing]
show_related: true
image:
    teaser: /language_logos/ruby.png
---

This guide provides a walk-through of how to use the official Algorithmia Ruby client to call algorithms and manage your data
through the Algorithmia platform.

Here you will learn how to install the Algorithmia Ruby Client, work with the Data API by uploading and downloading files, create and update directories and permission types and last, you'll learn how to call an algorithm that summarizes text files.

To follow along you can create a new Ruby script or if you'd rather, you can follow the examples in the Ruby interpreter.

For more information on the methods available using the Data API in Ruby check out the [Data API](http://docs.algorithmia.com/) or the [Algorithmia Ruby Client](https://github.com/algorithmiaio/algorithmia-ruby.git)


## Getting Started with Algorithmia

The Algorithmia Ruby Client is available on rubygems. Simply add gem 'algorithmia' to your application’s Gemfile and run bundle install or install via:

{% highlight ruby %}
gem install algorithmia
{% endhighlight %}

## Authentication

Next, retrieve your API key from the Credentials tab under "My Profile" after you've logged in to [Algorithmia](https://algorithmia.com/).

Now import the Algorithmia library and create the Algorithmia client, passing in your API key that you got from the Credentials tab found in "My Profile":

{% highlight ruby %}
require 'algorithmia'

# Authenticate with your API key
apiKey = '{Your API key here}'
# Create the Algorithmia client object
client = Algorithmia.client(apiKey)
{% endhighlight %}

Now you’re ready to start working with Algorithmia in Ruby.

## Working with Data Using the Data API

For application developers, [Algorithmia's Data Portal](http://developers.algorithmia.com/application-development/data-sources/) offers three different ways to store your data, all available via the [Data API](http://docs.algorithmia.com/).

This guide will show how to work with the [Hosted Data](https://algorithmia.com/data/hosted) option on the Algorithmia platform which is available to both algorithm and application developers.

### Prerequisites
If you wish to follow along working through the example yourself, create a text file that contains any unstructured text such as a chapter from a public domain book or article. We used a chapter from [Burning Daylight, by Jack London](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Burning_Daylight) which you can copy and paste into a text file. Or copy and paste it from here: <a href="/data_assets/burning_daylight.txt">Chapter One Burning Daylight, by Jack London</a>. This will be used throughout the guide.

### Create a Data Collection

This section will show how to create a data collection which is essentially a folder of data files hosted on Algorithmia for free.

First create a data collection called nlp_directory:

{% highlight ruby %}
# Set your Data URI
nlp_directory = client.dir("data://your_username/nlp_directory")
# Create your data collection if it does not exist
if !(nlp_directory.exists?)
	nlp_directory.create
	puts "Created directory"
else
	puts "Error: This directory already exists"
end
{% endhighlight %}

A Data URI uniquely identifies files and directories and contains a protocol "data://" and path "your_username/data_collection". For more information on the Data URI see the [Data API Specification](http://docs.algorithmia.com/#data-api-specification).

Instead of your username you can use '.my' when calling algorithms. For more information about the '.my' pseudonym check out the [Hosted Data Guide](/application-development/data-sources/hosted-data-guide/).
{: .notice-info}

### Work with Directory Permissions

When we created the data collection in the previous code snippet, the default setting is "My Algorithms" which is a permission type that allows other users on the platform to interact with your data through the algorithms you create if you decide to contribute to algorithm development. This means users can call your algorithm to perform an operation on your data stored in this collection, otherwise the algorithm you created would only work for you.

In order to change your data collection permissions you can go to [Hosted Data](https://algorithmia.com/data/hosted) and click on the collection you just created called **"nlp_directory"** and select from the dropdown at the top of the screen that will show three different types of permissions:

-	My Algorithms (called by any user)
-	Private (accessed only by me)
-	Public (available to anyone)

For more information about data collection permissions go to the [Hosted Data Guide](/application-development/data-sources/hosted-data-guide).


### Upload Data to your Data Collection

So far you've created your data collection and checked and updated directory permissions. Now you're ready to upload the text file that you created at the beginning of the guide to your data collection using the Data API.

First create a variable that holds the path to your data collection and the text file you will be uploading:

{% highlight ruby %}
text_file = "data://your_username/nlp_directory/jack_london.txt"
{% endhighlight %}

Next upload your local file to the data collection using the .putFile() method:

{% highlight ruby %}
# Upload local file
client.file(text_file).put_file("/your_local_path_to_file/jack_london.txt")
{% endhighlight %}

This endpoint will replace a file if it already exists. If you wish to avoid replacing a file, check if the file exists before using this endpoint.
{: .notice-warning}

You can confirm that the file was created by navigating to Algorithmia's [Hosted Data Source](https://algorithmia.com/data/hosted) and finding your data collection and file.

You can also upload your data through the UI on Algorithmia's [Hosted Data Source](https://algorithmia.com/data/hosted). For instructions on how to do this go to the [Hosted Data Guide](http://developers.algorithmia.com/application-development/data-sources/hosted-data-guide/).


